VERSION: JANUARY 15TH 2026
VERSION: DECEMBER 1ST 2023 – EMBARGO!
FUTURE
A SELF-DRIVING
CAR CHALLENGE
AGE GROUP:
14-22
WRO® 2026
WRO international premium partners
WRO international gold partners
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Table of Contents
1. General information ................................................................................................................ 3
2. Team and Age Groups definitions ........................................................................................ 4
3. Responsibilities and team’s own work ................................................................................ 4
4. Game documents and rule hierarchy ................................................................................... 5
5. Game Description and Game Field ....................................................................................... 6
6. Surprise Rule ............................................................................................................................ 8
7. Engineer’s documentation on GitHub .................................................................................. 8
8. Challenge rounds .................................................................................................................. 11
9. Specific Game Rules ............................................................................................................. 17
10. Scoring .................................................................................................................................... 21
11. Vehicle material & regulations ............................................................................................ 23
12. Competition Format & Rules ............................................................................................... 24
13. Game table and equipment .................................................................................................. 26
14. Glossary .................................................................................................................................. 29
Appendix A: Explanatory schemes ............................................................................................ 30
Appendix B: Game field for national/regional finals ............................................................... 43
Appendix C: Engineering journal evaluation ............................................................................ 44
Appendix D: Minimal set of electromechanical components ................................................ 55
Updates on the general rules from 2025 to 2026
Substantial changes and additions in the rules are marked in yellow. This list contains the
biggest changes:
6. Surprise rules will be used in 2026.
7. Clarifications regarding deadlines and evaluation of documentation.
8. & 10. Points for starting in the parking lot are only awarded if a full round was completed.
12.11. Robots should stay in the venue during multi-day competitions.
A.3. Clarification regarding leaving the start section after three rounds.
C. New scoring rubrics and more information regarding documentation.
Please note, that during the season there might be clarifications or additions to the rules by the
official WRO Questions & Answers. The answers are seen as addition to the rules. You can
find the WRO 2026 Q&A on this page: https://wro-association.org/competition/questions-
answers/
IMPORTANT: Use of this document in national tournaments
The rules in this document are used for the judging at international events. This rule document is made for all WRO
events around the world, but for the national competitions, a WRO National Organizer has the right to adapt these
international rules to suit local circumstances. All teams participating in a national WRO competition should use the
General Rules as provided by their National Organizer.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 2 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
1. General information
Introduction
In the WRO Future Engineers category teams need to focus on all parts of the engineering
process. The teams get points for documenting their process and making a public GitHub
repository. Every year a 20 to 30% change will be made to the challenges. The whole
challenge will change every 4-5 years.
In the Self-Driving Cars challenge a robotic vehicle needs to drive autonomously on a parkours
that randomly changes for each competition round.
Focus Areas
Every WRO category has a special focus on learning with robots. In the WRO Future Engineers
category, students will focus on developing in the following areas:
- Use of computer vision and sensor fusion to estimate the state of the parkours and the
vehicle itself.
- A working vehicle with open-source hardware such as electromechanical components
and controllers.
- Action planning and control of robots with moving parts and kinematics different from
the differential drive (e.g., steering).
- Optimal strategies to solve the mission, including stability of mission solving.
- Teamwork, communication, problem solving, project management, creativity.
- An Engineering journal to show progress and design strategies.
For teams that are interested in participating in this category a Getting Starting guide was
created. This guide explains more about the vehicle requirements, possible technical solution,
and errors. Here students can start to get an idea of how-to setup a vehicle for this competition.
Look at the Getting Started guide here!
Learning is most important
WRO wants to inspire students around the world for STEM related subjects and we want the
students to develop their skills through playful learning in our competitions. Therefore, the
following aspects are key for all our competition programs:
v Teachers, parents, or other adults can help, guide, and inspire the team, but are not
allowed to build or code/program the robot.
v Teams, coaches, and judges accept our WRO Guiding Principles and WRO Ethics
Code that should make all of us aware of a fair and learning full competition.
v On a competition day, Teams and Coaches respect the final decision judges take and
work with other teams and judges on a fair competition.
More information on the WRO Ethics Code you find here: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 3 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
2. Team and Age Groups definitions
2.1. 2.2. 2.3. 2.4. 2.5. 2.6. 2.7. 2.8. 2.9. A team consists of 2 or 3 students.
A team is guided by a coach.
1 team member and 1 coach are not considered a team and cannot participate.
A team may only participate in one of the WRO categories in a season.
Any student may participate in one team only.
The minimum age of a coach at an international event is 18 years old.
Coaches may work with more than one team.
The age group for this category is defined for students in the age of 14 - 22 years old.
(In season 2026: born years 2004-2012)
The maximum age reflects the age that the participant turns in the calendar year of the
competition, not his/her age at the competition day.
3. Responsibilities and team’s own work
3.1. 3.2. 3.3. 3.4. 3.5. 3.6. 3.7. 3.8. A team should play fair and be respectful towards teams, coaches, judges, and
competition organizers. By competing in WRO, teams and coaches accept the WRO
Guiding Principles that can be found at: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code.
Every team and coach need to undersign the WRO Ethics Code. The organizer of the
competition will define how the Ethics Code is collected and signed.
Coding of the vehicle and its construction (if applicable) may be done only by the team.
The task of the coach is to accompany the team organizationally and to support them in
advance in case of questions or problems, but not to do programming of the vehicle and
its construction (if applicable) themselves. This applies to both the day of the
competition and the preparation for the competition.
A team is not allowed to communicate in any way with people outside of the competition
area while the competition is running. If communication is necessary, a judge may allow
team members to communicate with others under supervision of a judge.
Team members are not allowed to bring and use mobile phones or any other
communication device into the competition area.
Destruction or tampering with competition courts/tables, materials, or vehicles of other
teams is prohibited.
It is not allowed to use a vehicle’s control program that is (a.) the same or too similar to
solutions sold online or (b.) the same or too similar to another solution at the competition
and clearly not the own work of the team. This includes solutions from teams of the
same institution and/or country. Robot vehicles built from modular building kits and
components will be checked for plagiarism. Since manufactured vehicles/sets can be
used in the competition, these vehicles will not be checked for plagiarism.
If there is a suspicion in relation to rule 3.3 and 3.7, the team will be subjection for
investigation and any consequences as mentioned in 3.9 can apply. Especially in these
cases rule 3.9.4 may be used to not allow this team to progress to the next competition,
even if the team would win the competition with the solution that is likely not their own.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 4 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
3.9. 3.9.1. 3.9.2. 3.9.3. 3.9.4. 3.9.5. If any of the rules mentioned in this document are broken or violated, the judges can
decide on one or more of the following consequences. Before, a team or individual team
members may be interviewed to find out more about the possible violation of the rules.
This can include questions about the vehicle or the program.
A team may not be allowed to participate in one or more challenge rounds.
A team may get up to a 50% reduced score in one or more challenge rounds.
A team may not qualify for the next round of the tournament.
A team may not qualify for the national / international final.
A team may be disqualified completely from the competition
Note: We would like to highlight some recurring rule violations that have led to penalties in previous competitions.
Please keep these points in mind to avoid unnecessary delays for adjustments during the competition and to prevent
penalties:
- Drive Systems: The drive wheels must be physically connected, for example, through a gearbox. It is not
allowed to use one motor per side (see rules 11.3 and 11.5).
- Starting Procedure: The robot must follow the starting procedure as outlined in the rules: one button to
turn the robot on and another button to start the program. Additional interactions are not permitted (see
rules 9.10 and 9.11).
- GitHub Repositories: GitHub repositories must remain online and publicly accessible for at least one year
after the event. If this requirement is not met, the repository will be republished by the WRO Association
(see chapter 7).
- Independent Robot Development: Robots must be developed independently by each team (see chapter
3). Joint development of robots with minor adjustments to make them appear different at first glance is not
allowed. Such robots will still be classified as identical. This behavior is considered deliberate deception
and constitutes a violation of the Ethics Code.
4. Game documents and rule hierarchy
4.1. 4.2. 4.3. 4.4. Every year, WRO publishes a new version of general rules for this category including
the concrete description of the self-driving vehicle game. These rules are the basis for
all international WRO events.
During a season, WRO may publish additional Question & Answers (Q&As) that can
clarify, extend, or re-define rules in game and general rule documents. Teams should
read these Q&A’s before the competition.
The general rule document and Q&A’s may be different in a country due to local
adaptations through the National Organizer. Teams need to inform themselves about
the rules that apply in their country. For any international WRO event, only the
information WRO has published is relevant. Teams that qualified for any international
WRO event should inform themselves about possible differences to their local rules.
At the competition day, the following rule hierarchy applies:
4.4.1. General rule document builds the basis for rules in this category.
4.4.2. Questions & Answers (Q&A’s) can overwrite rules in game and general rule
documents.
4.4.3. The head judge on the competition day has the final word in any decision.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 5 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
5. Game Description and Game Field
The self-driving car challenges in this season are Time Attack races: there will not be multiple
cars at the same time on the track. Instead, one car per attempt will try to achieve the best time
by driving several laps fully autonomously. The two challenges are the following:
Open Challenge: The vehicle must complete three (3) laps on the track with random placements
of the inside track walls.
Obstacle Challenge: The vehicle must complete three (3) laps on the track with randomly placed
green and red traffic signs. The traffic signs indicate the side of the lane the vehicle must follow.
The traffic sign to keep to the right side of the lane is a red pillar. The traffic sign to keep to the
left side of the lane is a green pillar. The vehicle should not move any of the traffic signs. After
the robot completed the three rounds, it has to find the parking lot and has to perform parallel
parking.
The starting direction in which the car must drive on the track (clockwise or counter clockwise)
will vary in different challenge rounds. The starting section of the car as well as the number and
location of traffic signs are randomly defined before the round (after the check time). The following
graphic shows the game field with the game objects.
Figure 1: Detailed game field
The game field represents a racetrack where traffic signs (represented by the coloured obstacles
- pillars) are set up.
The track consists of eight sections: four corner sections and four straightforward sections.
Corner sections are marked with red dashed lines on the next Figure. Straightforward sections
are marked with blue dashed lines.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 6 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Figure 2: Different types of sections on the game field
Every straightforward section is divided into 6 zones. Six internal zones within the section are
for starting position of the car. 4 T-intersections and 2 X-intersections are used to position the
traffic signs. The places where the traffic signs can be set up are called traffic signs’ seats.
Figure 3: Zones and traffic signs’ seats in the straightforward section
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 7 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
In the obstacle challenge a parking lot is placed in the straight forward section that is used to
start the robot. The width of the parking lot is always 20 cm. The length is variable and
calculated: 1,5 * length of the robot
The parking lot is limited by two wood elements with 20 cm x 2 cm x 10 cm in magenta. The
right element is placed right next to the dotted line. The position of the left one is defined as
described above.
Figure 4: Definition of size of the parking lot
6. Surprise Rule
A surprise rule for the international competition can be announced before the International
Final. This rule can add / modify / change existing rules and the qualified teams would have
time to prepare before the event.
Note: In the past, the surprise rule was not used very often. It is expected that the surprise rule
will be used in international competitions in the 2026 season.
7. Engineer’s documentation on GitHub
Real engineering is about creating a solution and communicating or sharing the idea with others
to bring the whole idea a step further. In addition to designing and programming the vehicle,
teams must provide documentation that presents their engineering progress, the final vehicle
design and final vehicle source code. This documentation must be uploaded to the GitHub public
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 8 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
repository, and a hardcopy must be submitted at the international final. Details about the scoring
of the documentation can be found in Appendix C of this document. For the international
competition, all information and documentation on GitHub must be done in English.
Each team must provide the following:
• Discussion, information and motivation for the vehicle’s mobility, power and sense, and
obstacle management.
• Photos of the vehicle (from every side, from top and bottom), and a team photo.
• URL to YouTube (should be either public or accessible by link) showing the vehicle
driving autonomously. That part of the video where driving demonstration exists, must be
at least 30 seconds in length. One video for each challenge must be provided.
• Link to a GitHub public repository with the code for all components which were
programmed to participate in the competition. The repository may also include the files
for models used by 3D printers, laser cutting machines and CNC machines to produce
the vehicle elements. The history of commits should contain at least 3 commits:
§ the first commit not later than 2 months before the competition – it must contain not
less than 1/5 of the final amount of the code.
§ The second commit not later than 1 month before the competition,
§ The third commit not later than 2 weeks before the competition.
Note: This commit will be mainly used for the evaluation and scoring of the
documentation. Later changes might not be included in the score. Make sure all
important information is in the repository at this point.
§ More commits are allowed.
The repository must contain a README.md file with a short description in English (not
less than 5000 characters) of the designed solution. The goal of the description is to clarify
which modules the code consists of, how they are related to the electromechanical
components of the vehicle, and what is the process to build/compile/upload the code to
the vehicle’s controllers. A template for the GitHub repos is available on
https://github.com/World-Robot-Olympiad-Association/wro2022-fe-template.
The link to the GitHub repository has to be provided no later than three weeks before the
competition. The organizers announce the exact date and time. The repository has to be
public from the moment when it is submitted for an international competition and has to
stay public at least 12 months after the competition. The idea of Future Engineers is to
encourage new teams and support them in finding existing solutions and get inspired by
them. If a repository is not public before the event, the team will get reduced points for
the documentation. WRO Association has the right to republish the repository at any time.
§ GitHub repositories must be set for public viewing and the content must be visible.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 9 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
• Code provided on GitHub and Hard Copy must be well documented with comments in
the code. Judges might not have access to the specific programs used by teams to
develop their code, e.g. EV3, Spike or Scratch.
Note: The hard copy has two purposes. On the one hand it can be used in case the
GitHub repository is not accessible (might result in reduced points). On the other hand
this is used by the judges to keep track of all the teams and their robot during the
competition. The main source for scoring points is the GitHub repository.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 10 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
8. Challenge rounds
For the International Final there will be at least four rounds, two for the Open Challenge and
two for the Obstacle Challenge. The direction for each challenge round, the starting position, and
the layout of the track will be chosen randomly. The direction in which the vehicle must move
during the challenges is defined as the challenge driving direction.
Open Challenge rounds
During Open Challenge rounds, the racetrack will have no traffic signs.
Figure 5: The game field for challenge one rounds
The distance between the track borders could be either 1000 mm or 600 mm (+/- 100 mm for the
International Final).
Figure 6: Examples of the game field variation for Open Challenge rounds
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 11 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
After choosing the direction to drive the track the following procedure could be used to determine
the car starting point and the distance between the track borders:
1. Toss the coin twice to determine the starting section. The figure below shows which
section corresponds to which combination of tosses (e.g., “tails & heads” means that the
first toss is tails and the second one is heads).
heads & heads
tails & heads
heads & tails
tails & tails
Figure 7a. Coin toss combinations to determine the starting section
2. Toss the coin four times to determine the section where distance between the track
borders will be reduced. The first toss is for the starting section, the second one is for the
next section in a clockwise direction and so on. Heads means a wide corridor; tails mean
a narrow corridor.
3. Figure 7b. The left scheme is for the toss results “tails-heads-tails-tails”.
The right scheme is for the toss results “heads-heads-tails-tails”
Roll a dice to determine the exact starting zone. The top left zone is for “1”, the bottom
right zone is for “6”. If the zone is inside of the border wall, the dice should be rolled again.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 12 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Figure 7c. Zone correspondence to the die faces
This procedure will be performed after the check time before every qualifying round so
the starting position of the car and the distances between the track borders are different
in every challenge round.
Obstacle Challenge rounds
During Obstacle Challenge rounds, the red and green pillars will be set up on the racetrack as
the traffic signs. In addition, two boundaries will be placed and form a parking lot. The distance
between the track borders will be always 1000 mm (+/- 10 mm for the International Final).
(a) (b)
Figure 8a: Examples of the game field for Obstacle Challenge rounds
The starting section of the car, the positions of the coloured pillars and the position of the parking
lot could be chosen by the following procedure (assuming that the round driving direction was
determined separately):
1. Toss the coin twice to determine a section where the single traffic sign will be located.
The figure below shows which section corresponds to which combination of tosses (e.g.,
“tails & heads” means that the first toss is tails and the second one is heads).
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 13 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
heads & heads
tails & heads
heads & tails
tails & tails
2. 3. Figure 8b. Coin toss combinations to determine a section with single traffic sign
Toss the coin once to determine the colour of the traffic sign in the section defined in the
previous step. Heads mean a green sign; the tails mean a red sign.
Get 36 cards as on the figure 11 and remove the card 9 or 10 from the set depending on
the colour of the sign chosen on the previous step: if the green sign was chosen, remove
the 9th card; if the red sign was chosen, remove the 10th card. Put the 35 cards into a non-
transparent box or bag. Take one card from the box – it will determine locations of the
traffic signs in the straightforward section next (considered clockwise) after the section
determined in the previous step. The thick black line on the card means the inner border
of the game field. The card must not be returned to the box. Take again a second card –
it will determine locations of the traffic signs in the next straightforward section. Repeat
these actions for the remaining straightforward sections.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 14 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
1 2 3 4
5
6 7 8 9
10
11 12 13
14 15
16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30
31 32 33 34 35
36
Figure 8c. 36 cards with position of traffic signs within a section
** Duplications of some of the cards is intentional.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 15 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
4. The parking lot will always be placed in the starting section. Determine the position of the
starting section (including the parking lot) by another pair of coin tosses.
Figure 8d. Coin toss for parking lot
After the parking lot is placed, all traffic signs in that section, will be moved to the positions
closer to the inner wall.
Figure 8e. Moving of traffic lights based on the position of parking lot.
The Team decides if it wants to start the robot from within the parking lot or in the middle
zone above the parking lot (see figure 8a). Starting in the parking lot will score additional
points. The additional points are only awarded, if the robot completed at least one full lap.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 16 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
9. Specific Game Rules
Challenge Round Timing
9.1. 9.2. Open Challenge rounds will be three minutes in length.
Obstacle Challenge rounds will be three minutes in length.
Start Configuration
9.3. The direction to drive the track is chosen randomly before each Challenge round in the
series, after the check time.
9.4. The starting position of the vehicle and the field configuration are determined before
starting every round, after the check time.
9.5. The direction to drive, starting position, and the field configuration remain the same for
all teams during the same round.
Round Start
9.6. The vehicle is placed in the starting zone totally SWITCHED OFF!
9.7. The position of the vehicle in the starting zone must be so the projection of the car on
the game mat is completely within the start zone.
9.8. The vehicle must be oriented so that the two wheels on the front axle (the judges must
ask the team in advance which is axle is a front one) are located closer to the next
corner section in the round driving direction whereas other two wheels are located
closer to the corner section in opposite direction.
9.9. Physical adjustments can be made (this is part of the preparation time). However, it is
not allowed to enter data to a program by changing positions or orientation of the vehicle
parts or to make any sensor calibrations on the vehicle. It is not allowed to enter data by
changing the switches configuration, if any. If a team does enter data through physical
adjustments, it will be disqualified for that round.
9.10. 9.11. The vehicle is then switched on. Only one switch is allowed to switch the vehicle on.
After vehicle is switched on, the vehicle should then be in a waiting state. Waiting for a
Start button to be pressed. The Start button could be on the main SBC/SBM or a
separately installed Push Button. Only one Start button is allowed. On an EV3, only one
program will be allowed. The run button must be pressed to start the last program that
was run on the EV3. The EV3 must then wait for a start button to be pressed. The start
button on the EV3 can be a touch sensor or the right arrow button. On a Spike robot
only Slot One can be used. The same procedure for the EV3 must be followed.
9.12. It is the responsibility of the team to check the layout of the racetrack and make sure it is
correct. The judge will ask if the team is ready. The team must answer Yes to show their
acceptance of the racetrack layout. No re-starts will be allowed if the team realised after
the start, that the racetrack layout was not correct.
9.13. A judge gives the signal to start the vehicle. Judge will count “Three, two, one, Go”. On
the “Go” command the starting button is then pressed and the time for the attempt is
started. The vehicle will have the amount of time to complete the round that is
mentioned in the Game Rules.
9.14. Pressing the start button must start the vehicle action to attempt the challenge round
and the vehicle should start moving.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 17 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Additional Pieces
9.15. The vehicle is not allowed to leave additional pieces on the game field or leave marks
that are not removable (e.g., paint) during the round intentionally. If the vehicle violates
this rule, the round will be stopped, and the vehicle must be stopped by one of the
team’s members. The score for this round will be zero and the time mark will be the
maximum. The judges have the right to inspect the team’s code if they suspect such a
situation.
During the Round
9.16. The vehicle must drive in the direction that was defined as the challenge driving
direction before the challenge start.
9.17. 9.18. The vehicle’s dimensions must not exceed 300x200 mm and 300 mm in height.
The vehicle is not allowed to move the walls (if they are not completely fixed on the
field). The vehicle that violates this rule will be stopped by one of the team’s members,
the score for this round will be zero and time mark will be the maximum. If the vehicle
touches or bumps the walls, and the walls are not moved, the vehicle may continue the
round, and no penalties will be incurred. If the vehicle bumps or touches the walls and
the vehicle stops, as a result of bumping or touching, a repairing action can be done,
and penalties will be incurred. During the open challenge rounds the vehicle may not
touch the outer boundary wall.
9.19. The vehicle must pass the traffic sign represented by the red pillar on the right (the
picture a) and the traffic sign represented by the green pillar on the left (the picture b).
The appendix A section 5 defines, when a traffic light was passed on the wrong side and
how it is scored.
9.20. 9.21. 9.22. 9.23. (a) (b)
Figure 9: The rules to pass the traffic signs
The vehicle is allowed to touch, move or knock down the traffic signs (coloured pillars)
while the projection of the traffic sign is within the circle drawn around the traffic sign’s
seat. For more details refer to Appendix A, section 1.
The vehicle is allowed to drive in the direction opposite to the round driving direction for
two sections only: the section where the direction was changed and the neighbouring
section.
The vehicle must return to the starting section after driving three laps to get additional
points. Note: as soon as the vehicle partially leaves the starting section this section also
becomes the finish section.
Once per round the team can ask permission for repairing actions: to take the vehicle
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 18 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
out, fix the issue with mechanical or electronic parts, and put the vehicle back to the
track in the centre of the section the vehicle was taken out of. The vehicle may be
switched off when it is removed from the track. The vehicle may be switched on after it
is put down on the track. The vehicle may then be switched on and put into motion again
by pressing the start button. The round timer will not be stopped for the repairing action.
The permission can be granted only if the vehicle has stopped. Possible reasons for the
stop, are issues with electronics/mechanics or because the vehicle hit the wall and is
stuck, or the vehicle just stops for no reason. The permission will not be granted for a
moving vehicle – if any of its parts drives for approximately 50 mm in 5 seconds. The
permission will not be granted if the vehicle has started the third lap (completely passed
the corner section before the last lap). It is not allowed to upload programs on any
controller of the vehicle as part of repairing actions. It is not allowed to enter any data.
The team that violates these rules will be disqualified from this round: the score for this
round will be zero and the time mark will be the maximum.
Round End:
9.24. The round ends and time is stopped if any of the following conditions occurs:
9.24.1. The round timer expires.
9.24.2. In Open Challenge: After three complete laps the vehicle stops in the finish section
so that the projection of the vehicle on the field is completely within the section. For
more details refer to Appendix A, section 2.
Note 1: the vehicle must stop in the finish section autonomously. If team participant
forces the end of the round by using one of the methods described below when the
vehicle is within the finish section, this will not be considered an autonomous stop
and points for stopping in the finish section will not be assigned.
Note 2: to demonstrate a complete stop in the finish section, the vehicle must not
continue driving after 15 seconds. If after the end of the round the vehicle continues
moving, judges could find the behaviour of the vehicle ambiguous and may not
assign a point for the stop in the finish section.
9.24.3. In Open Challenge: After three complete laps the vehicle passes the finish section so
that its projection on the mat is completely within the corner section next to the finish
section in the round driving direction. For more details refer to Appendix A, section 3.
The vehicle crosses section boundaries twice while driving in the direction which is
opposite to the round driving direction. For more details refer to Appendix A, section
4.
9.24.4. In Obstacle Challenge: After 3 rounds have been completed correctly, the vehicle
stops. Either in the correct section or in the parking lot.
9.24.5. In Obstacle Challenge: After passing a traffic sign from the incorrect side, the vehicle
completely crosses the line which goes from the inner border to the outer border and
where this traffic sign is located. For more details refer to Appendix A, section 5.
9.24.6. In Obstacle Challenge: The robot moved a traffic sign outside of the circle.
9.24.7. In Obstacle Challenge: The robot touches the parking lot limitations.
9.24.8. The vehicle’s dimensions still exceed the limit, after 3-minute repairing time.
9.24.9. Any team member touches the vehicle without the judge’s permission for repairing
actions.
9.24.10. Any team member touches the field mat and wall without the judge’s permission
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 19 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
9.25. 9.26. for repairing actions.
9.24.11. 9.24.12. Any team member touches the game elements.
The vehicle drives outside of the track (by moving the wall) or outside of the
game field.
9.24.13. The vehicle or team member damages the field or a game element.
Notice that, according to the above rules, the team can stop their attempt (e.g., by
touching the field wall or doing any of the above rules). However, they will not be able to
resume the attempt after the stop and the round will be ended.
The judges will base their decisions on the rules and fair game play. They have the final
decision on the competition day. If there is any uncertainty during the task completion,
the judges will bias their decision to the worst outcome available for the context of the
situation,
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 20 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
10. Scoring
10.1. 10.2. The official score will be calculated at the end of each challenge round.
The maximum score is calculated as follow:
10.2.1. 30 points for the Open Challenge round. (1.1 + 1.2 + 1.3)
10.2.2. 62 points for the Obstacle Challenge round. (1.1 + 1.2 + 1.3 and either 1.4 (or 1.5) or
1.6 (or 1.7) + 1.8)
10.2.3. 30 points for the engineering journal documentation
10.2.4. Maximum score is 122. (≈ 75% vehicle performance and ≈ 25% documentation)
Requirements Point
value
Total
available
1. Driving Open and Obstacle Challenge
1.1.
The vehicle drives from a section in the challenge driving direction.
This is applicable for the starting section, but not applicable for the
finish section and other section next after it.
1 24
1.2.
The vehicle drives a full lap. 8 sections were passed successfully
in the challenge driving direction. The starting section is included in
the eight sections for the first lap. The lap is considered as
completed if the vehicle completely drives out of the last (corner)
section in the lap. So, the vehicle can start moving in the opposite
direction after this and the lap will be still considered.
1 3
1.3. After the completion of three laps the vehicle stopped in the finish
section. 3 3
Additional points for Obstacle Challenge rounds:
Not completed three laps
1.4 One or more traffic signs were moved. Vehicle must complete
at least one round to qualify for score.
2 2
1.5.
The traffic signs were not moved. Vehicle must complete at
least one round to qualify for score.
4 4
After the completion of three laps
1.6 One or more traffic signs were moved. 8 8
1.7 No traffic signs were moved. 10 10
1.8.1 Vehicle started within the parking lot and completed at least one full
lap 7 7
1.8.2 Parking successfully (completely in the parking area and parallel) 15 15
1.8.3 Parking partly or not parallel in the parking area 7 7
2. The team performed repairing actions by taking the vehicle out of
the field even if the actions were not successful.
Total round
points divided by
factor 2
Engineering journal and vehicle documentation
Refer to appendix C for a breakdown of the engineering journal
3.
30
scoring. (Note: There are significant changes to the scoring
rubrics.)
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 21 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
10.3. 10.4. 10.5. 10.6. 10.7. 10.8. The time measured by a judge, the moment of the open challenge round ends, is written
down and will be later used to identify the best round. If a team or vehicle was
disqualified for the challenge round, the maximum time (3 minutes) is given for such a
challenge round.
The score calculation is done by the judges at the conclusion of each challenge round.
The team must verify and sign the score sheet after the round if they have no fair
complaints.
The teams’ ranks for Open Challenge rounds are based on points each team received in
their best Open Challenge rounds. If a team has the same score in both rounds, the
round with the smallest time will be chosen as the best Open Challenge round.
All teams will compete in both challenge rounds.
The teams’ ranks for overall competition are built based on the sum of each team’s
points received in the best Open Challenge round, points received in the best Obstacle
Challenge round and points received for the engineering journal and vehicle
documentation. If a team has the same score in both Obstacle Challenge rounds, the
round with the quickest time will be chosen as the best Obstacle Challenge round.
If there is a tie between two teams, ranking will be determined by considering the
following results (the first in the list is the highest priority, the last in the list is the lowest
priority):
10.8.1. Sum of points received in Open Challenge round, points received in the Obstacle
Challenge round and points received for the engineering journal and vehicle
documentation
10.8.2. 10.8.3. 10.8.4. 10.8.5. 10.8.6. 10.8.7. 10.8.8. 10.8.9. 10.8.10. Points of the best Obstacle Challenge round
Time for the best Obstacle Challenge round
Points of the second-best Obstacle Challenge round
Time for the second-best Obstacle Challenge round
Points for the engineering journal and vehicle documentation
Points for the best Open Challenge round
Points of the second-best Open Challenge round
Time for the best Open Challenge round
Time for the second-best Open Challenge round
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 22 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
11. Vehicle material & regulations
11.1. 11.2. 11.3. The vehicle’s dimensions must not exceed 300x200 mm and 300 mm in height.
The weight of the vehicle must not exceed 1.5 kilograms.
The vehicle must be a 4 wheeled vehicle with one driving axle and one steering actuator
of any type. It must be either front-wheel drive (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Front-
wheel_drive), rear-wheel drive (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rear-wheel_drive) or four-
wheel drive (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four-wheel_drive). Teams with vehicles that
use the differential wheeled base
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differential_wheeled_robot) will be disqualified.
Driving – making the vehicle move forward and backward.
Steering – turning the vehicle to the left or to the right.
11.4. The vehicle cannot use any kind of an omnidirectional wheel, ball caster or spherical
wheel.
11.5. The use of an electronic differentials with one motor per side (like in a differential
wheeled robot) is not allowed.
11.6. A vehicle must be autonomous and finish the “missions” by itself. Any radio
communication, remote control, and wired control systems are not allowed while the
vehicle is running. Teams in violation of this rule will be disqualified.
11.7. Participants are not allowed to interfere with or assist the vehicle while it is running
(performing the "mission"). This includes entering data to a program by giving visual,
audio or any other signals to the vehicle during the round. Teams that violate this rule
will be disqualified at that round.
11.8. The controller used for the vehicle can be either Single board computer (SBC)
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-board_computer) or Single board microcontroller
(SBM) (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-board_microcontroller) with no restriction on
brand.
11.9. There could be more than one SBC/SBM on the vehicle.
11.10. Teams cannot use any kind of RF, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, or any kind of wireless
communication components in their vehicles during the competition rounds. If it is built-
in on the controller, it must be turned off and the judges can inspect the code and the
vehicle to confirm that it is not used by any means.
11.11. Teams can use any sensors of their choice – there are no restrictions on brand, function
or number of sensors used. Cameras are considered sensors. Smartphones can be
used as cameras and to process image data.
11.12. Teams can use any electrical DC motors and/or servo motors of their choice – there are
no restrictions on brand of motors and/or servos used.
11.13. A maximum of two motors may be used to make the vehicle move forward or backward
(i.e., driving the robot, these are the driving motors). The driving motors must all be
connected directly to the axle turning the wheels, or indirectly through a gearing system.
The two driving motors may not be connected independently of each other to the driving
wheels.
11.14. Teams can use any electronic components – there are no restrictions on the type,
company, number, or the purpose.
11.15. Teams can use any hydraulic pressure, barometric pressure equipment or solenoids.
11.16. Teams can use any battery of their choice – there are no restrictions on brand, function
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 23 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
or number of batteries used.
11.17. Only wire connections are permitted for communication between vehicle
electromechanical components.
11.18. Teams can use 3D printed elements, elements prepared with a CNC machine, elements
cut from acrylic/wood/metal or any elements from any material – there are no
restrictions on the purpose.
11.19. The vehicle can be built using any type of hardware kits and any material. There is no
restriction on a specific type or a specific building system.
11.20. Teams can use electrical tape, elastic bands, cable wraps, nylon ties (tie wraps), etc.
Any adhesive material is allowed to be used for any purpose.
11.21. Teams should bring enough spare parts. In the case of any accidents or equipment
malfunction, WRO (and/or organizing committee) is not responsible for their
maintenance or replacement.
11.22. Vehicles may be assembled before the tournament.
11.23. Control software can be written in any programming language – there are no restrictions
on a specific language.
11.24. Contestants may prepare the program beforehand.
11.25. Teams should prepare and bring all the equipment, software, and portable computers
they need during the tournament.
11.26. The team is allowed to have only one vehicle for competition day. No spare vehicles are
allowed inside the competition area.
12. Competition Format & Rules
The description in this document explains how the competition will be done at the International
Final. National and regional competitions can use this model or customise this model for their
own competitions.
12.1. 12.2. 12.3. 12.4. 12.5. 12.6. The competition consists of several challenge rounds with practice time in between.
After each practice time, there will be a vehicle check time to review the requirements.
Each team must work during practice time in their specified place until the check time,
when the team’s vehicle must be placed in a designated area (checking area).
On the day of the competition, there will be a minimum of 60 minutes of practice time
before the start of the first round.
Teams cannot touch the designated competition areas before the start of the practice
time is announced.
During practice time, the contestants may work in their places, or may queue with their
vehicles to have one test attempt on the game field or may take measurements in the
game field in so far as this does not interfere with other teams' test attempts. The
maximum time allowed per team for one practice attempt is 4 minutes. After 4 minutes a
team may fall in at the back of the que for another practice attempt. Teams are allowed
to make changes to the program or to adjust the vehicle mechanically.
All vehicles must be placed on the reviewing table in the checking area for preparatory
review (vehicle check) after the end of the practice period. All controllers of the
vehicle must be powered off. No mechanisms or programs may be modified after this
time.
12.7. Vehicles may take part in the competition only after they have passed the vehicle check.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 24 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
The check is concerning the requirements to the vehicle and materials used, as
described in the sections above.
12.8. If a vehicle does not pass the vehicle check by the judges, the judges may provide a
team up to 3 minutes to address issues found. Only one three minutes period can be
provided by judges for a team per each check time slot.
12.9. If eventually a vehicle does not pass the vehicle check by the judges, the vehicle may
not be used in the competition.
12.10. The team cannot exceed 90 seconds for preparation as soon as they are called by
judges for participating in a particular challenge round, and once started, individual
rounds may not exceed the challenge round time specified in the Game Rules.
12.11. In a multi-day competition, the robots have to stay in the venue during the night.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 25 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
13. Game table and equipment
Game Table & Field
13.1. 13.2. 13.3. 13.4. 13.5. Size of the game mat is 3200 x 3200 mm (+/- 5 mm). The internal square within the
game mat is the racetrack with inner size 3000 x 3000 mm (+/- 5 mm).
The main colour of the track is white.
The track is surrounded by (exterior) walls with inner height 100 mm.
The inner colour of the exterior walls is black. The outer colour of the walls is not
defined.
There exist additional (interior) walls surrounding the internal section of the track with
the height 100 mm.
Figure 10: Height of the exterior and interior walls
13.6. The outer colour of the interior walls is black. The inner colour of the walls is black. The
colour of the top edge of the walls is black.
13.7. 13.8. The thickness of both exterior and interior walls is not defined.
The distance between exterior and interior walls depends on the round type and is
specified in the Game Alternatives section.
13.9. There are orange and blue lines on the track. The thickness of the lines is 20 mm. The
colour of the orange lines is CMYK (0, 60, 100, 0). The colour of the blue lines is CMYK
(100, 80, 0, 0).
13.10. There are dashed lines with thickness 1 mm on the field to bound the vehicle’s starting
zones. The colour of dashed lines is CMYK (0 0 0 30).
13.11. The size of every starting zone is 200 x 500 mm.
13.12. There are squares to identify places where traffic signs could be located. The line
thickness of the traffic sing seat is 1 mm, and the colour of the line is CMYK (0 0 0 30).
13.13. The size of every traffic sign seat is 50x50 mm.
13.14. The area to evaluate if a traffic sign is moved is specified as a circle around the
corresponding traffic sign’s seat. The thickness of the circle line is 0.5 mm. The colour of
the lines is CMYK (20 0 100 0).
13.15. The diameter of the circle is 85 mm.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 26 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Figure 11: The game field map with sizes
Walls configuration for the International Final
13.16. The inner walls will be placed in a square or rectangular shape according to the draw.
The outer walls will be fixed in a square shape and will not change during challenges.
13.17. The colour of the walls will be black.
13.18. Although everything will be done by the organisers get the colours of the field mat and
field objects as close as possible to the CMYK specification, differences might still
appear. Teams will have the opportunity to calibrate and fine tune their vehicles to the
colours on the board and field objects during testing rounds.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 27 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Traffic Signs
13.19. Every traffic sign is a rectangular parallelepiped with dimensions 50x50x100 mm.
13.20. Depending on the randomization process before every round there could be up to 7 red
parallelepipeds and up to 7 green parallelepipeds.
13.21. The colour of the red traffic signs is RGB (238, 39, 55).
13.22. The colour of the green traffic signs is RGB (68, 214, 44).
13.23. The material of the traffic sign is not defined.
13.24. The weight of the traffic sign is not defined.
(a) (b)
Figure 12: Dimensions of the traffic signs
Parking lot limitations
13.25. Every parking lot limitation is a rectangular parallelepiped with dimensions 200x20x100
mm.
13.26. One parking lot with two parking lot limitations is in each obstacle challenge round
placed on the mat.
13.27. The colour of the parking lot limitation is magenta / RGB (255, 0, 255).
13.28. The material of the traffic sign is not defined.
13.29. The weight of the traffic sign is not defined.
Figure 13: Dimensions of the parking lot limitations
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 28 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
14. Glossary
Check Time During the check time, the judge will look at the vehicle and check the
measurements (e.g., with a cube or a folding rule) and other technical
requirements. A check needs to be done before every round.
Coach A person assisting a team in the process to learn different robotics
aspects, teamwork, problem solving, time management, etc. The role
of the coach is not to win the competition for the team, but to teach
them and guide them through the problem identification and in
discovering ways to solve the competition challenge.
Competition
organizer
The competition organizer is the entity that hosts the competition a
team is visiting. This can be a local school, the National Organizer of a
country that runs the National Final or a WRO Host Country together
with WRO Association running the International WRO Final.
Competition There are two types of rounds in the competition: qualification and final.
The best performing teams after the qualification rounds participating
in the final rounds.
Game field The area which the vehicle must navigate within. The area may contain
objects the vehicle must interact to as per the competition
requirements.
GitHub repo A storage for the source codes of the programs managed with the
version control system Git. The storage is provided by the GitHub
service (https://github.com/)
Round A team runs an autonomous vehicle to complete the task of the
challenge. The challenge score is based on the amount of laps the
vehicle drives on the game field.
Practice Time During the practice time, the team can test the vehicle on the field
and the team can change mechanical aspects or the coding of the
vehicle. Calibration is allowed during practise time.
Team In this document the word team includes the 2-3 participants
(students) of a team, not the coach who should only support the
team.
Vehicle’s control
program
A set (or sets) of instructions for the vehicle’s
microprocessor/microcontroller to read values from the sensors and
analyse this information and prior state of the vehicle as so to provide
commands for the vehicle’s motors to solve the challenge.
Driving Motor The motors connected to the axles which are connected to the
wheels. These motors move the vehicle forward or backward.
Steering Motor The motor that steers the vehicle to the left or to the right direction.
WRO In this document, WRO stands for World Robot Olympiad Association
Ltd., the non-profit organization running WRO world-wide and that
prepares all the game and rule documents.
Driving direction The direction in which the vehicle must move during the challenges.
This is determined through the randomization.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 29 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Appendix A: Explanatory schemes
1. Meaning of moved or knocked down traffic sign
On the schemes below the traffic signs are considered as:
• (a) – not moved
• (b) – moved
• (c) – moved but does not cause the round stop
• (d) – knocked down but does not cause the round stop
• (e) – moved and causes the round stop
• (f) – knocked down and causes the round stop
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 14:
a) initial position of the traffic sign at the round start
b) the traffic sign is not on the seat but still within the circle
c) the traffic sign is partially outside of the circle and considered as moved
(d) (e)
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 30 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
(f)
Figure 15:
d) knocked down traffic sign is partially outside of the circle
e) the traffic sign is moved completely outside of the circle
f) knocked down traffic sign is completely outside of the circle
2. Conditions to get points for finishing in the starting section
To identify if the vehicle finished within the starting section or not, the projection of the vehicle on
the mat is used after full stop. If any part of the projection is outside of a straightforward section
where the starting zone is located, the vehicle is considered outside of the starting section.
Consideration if the vehicle is within the starting zone or not is possible only if the vehicle stopped
and has not moved for at least 30 seconds.
The starting zone on the schemes below is marked by the green colour.
Figure 16: The vehicle finished completely within the starting section
Figure 17: The vehicle finished outside of the starting section
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 31 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
3. Passing the starting section after three laps
In the open challenge round the judges will end the round as soon as the vehicle passes the
starting section after driving three laps.
When three laps are completed, the following phases are possible:
(a) the vehicle is driving to the starting section (b) the vehicle is driving out of the starting
section
(c) the vehicle has passed the starting section
Figure18: Phases of passing the starting zone by the vehicle moving CCW
If the vehicle is still moving the judge will not stop time at the phases (a) and (b). But as soon as
the vehicle is completely in the corner zone, the phase (c), the round will be ended.
The same is applicable if the round driving direction is clockwise.
(a) the vehicle is driving to the starting zone (b) the vehicle is driving out of the starting zone
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 32 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
(c) the vehicle has passed the starting zone
Figure 19: Phases of passing the starting zone by the vehicle moving clockwise
4. Driving in the opposite direction
During the round the vehicle is allowed to drive in the direction opposite to the round driving
direction for two sections only: the section where the direction was changed and the neighbour
section.
Let’s consider the several cases:
Case 1: the vehicle started driving in the opposite direction and stopped completely within
the neighbouring section
Figure 20: Allowed driving in the opposite direction from the corner section
On the figure above the round driving direction is clockwise (presented by the green dotted arrow
near to the wall):
- phase 1: the vehicle arrived in the corner section
- phase 2: it stopped
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 33 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
- phase 3: it started driving back
- phase 4: the vehicle stopped in the straightforward section without crossing the section
boundary with the next section
- phase 5: it continued driving in the round driving direction.
Such manoeuvre is allowed.
Case 2: the vehicle started driving in the opposite direction and stopped on the line
between two sections
Figure 21: Allowed to stop at the boundary between the next section and the section
after it while driving in the opposite direction
On the figure above the round driving direction is clockwise (presented by the green dotted arrow
near to the wall):
- phase 1: the vehicle arrived in the corner section
- phase 2: it stopped
- phase 3: it started driving back
- phase 4: the vehicle stopped at the boundary between the next section and the section
- phase 5: it continued driving in the round driving direction.
Such sequence of movements is also allowed
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 34 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Case 3: the vehicle started driving in the opposite direction and moved completely outside
the neighbouring section
If the vehicle passes the boundary between the neighbour section and the section after it, the
round will be stopped.
Figure 22: Moving completely outside of the neighbour section while driving in the
opposite direction is not allowed
On the figure above:
- phase 1: the vehicle is initially moving in the round driving direction which is clockwise
(presented by the green dotted arrow near to the wall)
- phase 2: it stopped
- phase 3: it started driving in the opposite direction and crosses two sections as, so it is
completely outside of the neighbouring section.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 35 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Case 4: the vehicle changed the direction on the border between two sections
If the vehicle changed the direction when its projection on the field crossed the line between two
sections, the forward section is considered as the first one to determine the farthest section which
is allowed to drive in the opposite direction.
Figure 23: The farthest section to drive in the opposite direction when the vehicle
stopped partially in the section
On the left side of the figure above the final of the following scenario is considered:
- phase 1: the vehicle initially drove through track CCW (reflected by the green dotted
arrow near to the wall)
- phase 2: it stopped on the line between two sections – the forward section in the round
driving direction is considered as the section where the direction was changed
- phase 3: it continued driving in the opposite direction and passed completely the section
which is the neighbour to the section where the direction was changed.
Such behaviour will lead to the immediate stop of the round.
The scenario in which the round continues is considered:
- phase 1: the vehicle initially drove through track CCW (reflected by the green dotted
arrow near to the wall)
- phase 2: it stopped on the line between two sections – the forward section in the round
driving direction is considered as the section where the direction was changed
- phase 3: it changed the direction and started moving in the opposite direction
- phase 4: the vehicle stopped at the border of two sections
- phase 5: it continued driving CCW
Since the vehicle’s projection is still partially in the neighbouring section the round is not stopped.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 36 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Case 5: changing the direction several times
The vehicle is allowed to change the direction several times but the farthest section to drive in
the opposite direction is considered based on the closest to the finish section where direction
was changed the first time:
Figure 24: Allowance of changing the direction several times considered based on the
closest to the finish section
The figure above allows to consider different outcomes for the case when the vehicle is changing
the direction several times:
- phase 1: the vehicle initially drove through track CCW (reflected by the green dotted
arrow near to the wall)
- phase 2: it stopped on the line between two sections – the forward section in the round
driving direction is considered as the section where the direction was changed
- phase 3: it changed the direction and started moving in the opposite direction
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 37 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
- phase 4 and 5: the vehicle stopped in the neighbouring section – next to the section
where the direction was initially changed then continued moving in the correct direction
- phase 6 and 7: the vehicle changed direction one more time, but this is not considered
since the previous section where the direction was changed to opposite is closer to the
finish
- if the vehicle completely goes out of the neighbouring section driving opposite the math
will be stopped (the left side of the figure)
- if only part of the vehicle’s projection is in the section next to the neighbouring section,
this will not be considered as a reason to stop the round (the right side of the figure)
Case 6: Driving back-to-front
Hint: Old case 6 “passing traffic sign in the opposite direction” has been removed.
Driving back-to-front is allowed if the vehicle is being moved in the round driving direction.
Figure 25: Back to front driving in the round driving direction
In this direction the rules to pass the traffic signs are applied to the vehicle in the same manner
– the red pillar must be passed from the right; the green pillar must be passed from the left.
(a) (b)
Figure 26: The rules to pass the traffic signs while driving back-to-front
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 38 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
5. Passing traffic signs from the incorrect side
Although it is not allowed to pass traffic signs from the incorrect side, a threshold exists that can
be used by the vehicle to recognize the fault state and fix the behaviour.
If the vehicle started passing the traffic sign improperly the time will not be stopped if the vehicle
does not pass completely the line that goes from the interior wall to the exterior wall (later, –
radius) and where the traffic sign is located.
Figure 27: The vehicle does not pass the radius while driving from the right of the green
pillar
Figure 28: The vehicle does not pass the radius while driving from the right of the red
pillar
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 39 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
As soon as the radius is completely crossed by vehicle judges will stop the round.
Figure 29: The vehicle completely crosses the radius from the right side of the green
pillar
Figure 30: The vehicle completely crosses the radius from the left side of the red pillar
The same is applicable for the case when the vehicle is moving back-to-front in the round driving
direction.
Figure 31: The vehicle passes the radius while driving back-to-front
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 40 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
In the obstacle challenge traffic signs only have to be obeyed on the three official laps. On the
subsequent route to the parking lot, they can be bypassed to the right or left as desired. Moving
them is still not permitted.
6. Parking in the parking lot
A robot is considered fully parked, when the projection of the robot on the mat is fully inside the
rectangle between the two markers of the parking lot (marked in grey in the pictures) and the
robot is parked in parallel to the wall of the game field. The robot is considered to be parallel if
the distances between the two wheels on one side and the wall do not differ by more than 2
cm.
Grey area is the allowed area for
parking.
The robot is fully in and parallel
to the outer wall.
If it is unclear whether the robot has been parked parallel, the
distance between the wheels on one side and the wall is measured.
The two main driving wheels will be used for measurements. If the
difference between the two distances is greater than 2 cm, the robot is
not considered to be parked parallel.
Figure 32: Fully parked situations
The robot is considered partly parked, when the projection of the robot on the mat is only partly
inside the parking lot.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 41 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Counts as partly. Car not parked in parallel.
Figure 33: Partly parked situations
The parking lot limitations cannot be touched by the robot. When they are touched, the robot is
stopped and no points for the parking can be scored.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 42 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Appendix B: Game field for national/regional finals
The main difference in the game field preparation for national/regional finals from the international
final is how to build the interior wall, since the wall configuration depends on the randomization
that happens before every qualification round.
Below is the recommendation that can be used to prepare segments of the interior wall.
First, this recommendation assumes that the material of the interior wall is
wood/particleboard/MDF. Then, the wall consists of four parts: two long segments and two short
segments and the thickness of every segment is the same. These segments are fixed together
by using confirmat screws or dome screws and insert nuts. The height of the segments is 100
mm. The colour of the segments is black.
Le
long segment
short segment
Li
w
Figure 34: Scheme of segments used for the interior wall
So, all possible configurations of the inner wall could be achieved if the following sets of segments
are prepared:
Long segments Short segments
2 segments per 1000 mm 2 segments per (1000 − 2𝑤) mm
2 segments per 1400 mm 2 segments per (1400 − 2𝑤) mm
2 segments per 1800 mm 2 segments per (1800 − 2𝑤) mm
where “w” is the thickness of a segment
For example, if the segment thickness is 17 mm, the lengths of short segments will be 966 mm,
1366 mm, and 1766 mm.
After the randomization prior to a round, the corresponding combination of segments is fixed
together by screws and located on the field. To make the construction harder to move by the
vehicle, some weight could be located on the inner side of the wall’s corners.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 43 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Appendix C: Engineering Journal and Documentation Requirements
C.1 Purpose of the Engineering Journal and GitHub Repository
The Engineering Journal and GitHub repository together form the primary documentation of the
team’s engineering work in the Future Engineers category.
They serve four key purposes:
1. Demonstrate the team’s engineering process, not only the final robot.
2. Allow judges to evaluate the quality of design decisions and systems thinking.
3. Provide enough detail that another team could reproduce the robot.
4. Act as a differentiator when robot performance on the field is similar between teams.
The evaluation is not based on visual beauty or length, but on the clarity and depth of
engineering reasoning, the quality of testing and iteration, and the reproducibility of the
system.
The same rubric applies to all age groups (14 to 22). Organizers may optionally award separate
age-related recognition (for example Junior Excellence, Senior Excellence, Collegiate
Excellence), but competition rankings and documentation evaluation use one unified rubric.
C.2 Documentation Evaluation Overview
Judges evaluate the documentation using five criteria, each scored using a four-level scale:
1. Mobility and Mechanical Design
2. Power and Sensor Architecture
3. Software Architecture and Obstacle Strategy
4. Systems Thinking and Engineering Decisions
5. Reproducibility and GitHub Quality
Each criterion is scored as 0, 2, 4 or 6 points:
• 0 = No evidence provided
• 2 = Limited evidence
• 4 = Competent engineering
• 6 = Advanced engineering with strong justification
The maximum total score is 30 points.
Teams are expected to use both:
• A structured Engineering Journal (PDF or similar), and
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 44 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
• A well-organized GitHub repository, which holds code, CAD, wiring information
and other technical files.
Judges will use the documentation that is available by the deadline defined in the rules. Teams
may update their repository after that time, but updates may not be considered during
evaluation.
C.3 Rubric: Criteria and Score Descriptors
The table below shows the full rubric that judges will use.
C.3.1 Scoring Scale (applies to all criteria)
Score Label General meaning
6 Advanced engineering Fully justified decisions, testing, tradeoffs and systems thinking
4 Competent engineering Clear, structured and reproducible engineering work
2 Limited evidence Some information, but incomplete or weakly justified
0 No evidence Missing, irrelevant or cannot be evaluated
C.3.2 Detailed Criterion Descriptions
Criterion 1: Mobility and Mechanical Design
Level Description
Includes torque and speed reasoning, design tradeoffs and why components were
6
chosen. Shows testing or iterations that affected the mechanical design and improved
performance.
4 Clear explanation of chassis, drive and steering. Diagrams included. Another team could
reproduce the mechanical design.
2 Describes what the robot looks like, but without reasoning or diagrams.
0 No information provided or information is irrelevant to mobility and mechanical design.
What is evaluated:
• Chassis design choices
• Steering and drive mechanism
• Torque and speed reasoning
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 45 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
• Mechanical stability and rigidity
• Justification of design choices
What evaluators are looking for:
• Evidence that the team understood how mechanical design affects performance.
• Clear explanation of why a particular drive and steering solution was selected.
• Use of testing to refine the mechanical design.
Criterion 2: Power and Sensor Architecture
Level Description
Includes a power budget, sensor tradeoffs, placement justified using field geometry,
6
calibration method, failure point considerations and evidence of iteration to improve
reliability.
4 Wiring diagram provided. Sensor placement and selection explained. Documentation is
reproducible.
2 Lists battery and sensors, but without diagrams or meaningful explanation.
0 No power or sensor information is provided.
What is evaluated:
• Power system architecture
• Current draw reasoning and distribution
• Sensor selection and placement
• Calibration methods
• Wiring diagrams
What evaluators are looking for:
• Evidence that the team planned power distribution, not only connected parts.
• Justification for sensor choices and positions.
• Consideration of noise, interference, shadows and similar issues.
Criterion 3: Software Architecture and Obstacle Strategy
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 46 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Level Description
State machine with rationale. Algorithms are justified (for example PID, computer vision
6
method, IMU fusion). Edge cases are handled. Testing and tuning process is described,
including metrics used for performance evaluation.
4 Flowchart is provided. Modules and functions are clearly explained. Obstacle logic is
described and reproducible.
2 Basic description of software and obstacle strategy, but limited detail and no clear
structure.
0 Code is pasted without explanation, or the strategy cannot be understood from the
documentation.
What is evaluated:
• Code modularity and structure
• State machines or control flow
• Lane following and obstacle obedience strategy
• Explanation of algorithms used
• Basic code documentation and comments
What evaluators are looking for:
• Understanding of how software structure supports the robot’s behavior.
• Clear strategies for lane following, obstacle avoidance and side obedience.
• Evidence of testing and tuning, not just final code.
Criterion 4: Systems Thinking and Engineering Decisions
Level Description
Explicit constraints are identified. Tradeoffs and iteration cycles are described. Risks and
6
failure modes are discussed with mitigation. The documentation includes “we chose X
instead of Y because...” reasoning based on data or tests.
4 Subsystems are mapped and their interactions explained. Constraints are mentioned and
discussed at a basic level.
2 Some reasoning or descriptions of decisions, but incomplete or superficial.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 47 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Level Description
0 No decision process is visible. Documentation describes what was done, but not why.
What is evaluated:
• How subsystems work together (mobility, power, sensors, software, frame).
• Engineering reasoning behind decisions.
• Constraints and tradeoffs.
• Iteration and testing cycles.
• Risk identification and mitigation actions.
What evaluators are looking for:
• Evidence that the team thought about the robot as a system, not as separate parts.
• Clear decisions made under constraints such as power, weight, processing and time.
Criterion 5: Reproducibility and GitHub Quality
Level Description
The robot is fully reproducible from the documentation. GitHub has clear project structure,
6
meaningful commit messages, documented testing workflow and versioning or release
notes.
README has at least 5000 characters. Required commits are present. CAD, code and
4
wiring information are included. Another team could reproduce the robot with reasonable
effort.
2 A repository exists, but structure is poor, files are missing or unclear, and reproducibility
is limited.
0 GitHub is missing, broken or incomplete to the point where evaluation is not possible.
What is evaluated:
• GitHub structure and clarity
• Commit history (at least three meaningful commits)
• README content and structure
• File organization
• CAD, code, wiring and related technical files
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 48 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
• Reproducibility of the robot
What evaluators are looking for:
• Professional and usable documentation.
• Evidence that the repository reflects the engineering process, not only a final code dump.
C.4 Evaluator Quick Reference Page
This subsection is intended as a one-page summary that judges can use while scoring.
C.4.1 Compact Rubric Overview
Criterion 0 (No
2 (Limited
4 (Competent
6 (Advanced
evidence)
evidence)
engineering)
engineering)
Mobility and
No
Only
Clear mech
Includes torque
Mechanical
mechanical
description of
design, diagrams,
and speed
Design
info
appearance
reproducible
reasoning,
tradeoffs, testing
and justification
Power and
No power or
Only
Wiring diagram,
Power budget,
Sensor
sensor info
component
sensor placement
sensor trade offs,
Architecture
lists
and selection
placement
explained,
justification,
reproducible
calibration, failure
handling
Software
No
Basic
Flowchart, module
Justified
Architecture and
explanation
software
explanation,
algorithms, state
Obstacle
of code or
description
obstacle logic,
machine, edge
Strategy
strategy
reproducible
cases, testing
metrics
Systems
No visible
Some
Subsystems
Constraints,
Thinking and
decision
reasoning,
mapped and
tradeoffs, iteration,
Engineering
process
incomplete
interactions
risk and mitigation
Decisions
explained
with “why we
chose X” reasoning
Reproducibility
Missing or
Poor
README, CAD,
Fully reproducible,
and GitHub
broken
structure,
wiring and code,
professional
Quality
repository
partial files
reproducible
structure, commits,
testing workflow,
versioning
C.4.2 Suggested Evaluation Workflow (15 to 20 minutes)
1. Open the team’s GitHub repository and identify the README and main folders.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 49 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
2. Scan the Engineering Journal to locate sections that match the five criteria.
3. For each criterion, check for evidence matching levels 0, 2, 4 and 6.
4. Select one score per criterion (0, 2, 4 or 6) based only on evidence.
5. Avoid adjusting scores based on nationality, age, language or overall impression.
6. Record scores and short comments if needed.
Language quality should not affect scoring unless it prevents the evaluator from understanding
the engineering reasoning.
C.5 Team Checklist
Teams can use this checklist before submitting their documentation.
C.5.1 General
• We have an Engineering Journal that tells the story of our engineering work, not only
assembly steps.
• We have a GitHub repository with clear structure and all-important files.
• Our documentation explains why we made decisions, not only what we did.
C.5.2 Per Criterion
Mobility and Mechanical Design
• Have we explained why we chose this chassis and drive system?
• Do we include diagrams of the mechanical layout?
• Did we describe any tests or changes that improved the design?
Power and Sensor Architecture
• Do we show how power is distributed and regulated?
• Have we justified our sensor choices and positions?
• Is there at least one wiring diagram and description of calibration?
Software Architecture and Obstacle Strategy
• Do we show a flowchart or state machine for our software?
• Do we explain how we follow lanes and avoid obstacles?
• Have we included some descriptions of testing or tuning?
Systems Thinking and Engineering Decisions
• Did we identify constraints such as power, weight, time or processing?
• Have we shown at least one design trade off and explained our choice?
• Did we show how our design changed over time (version 1, 2, 3)?
Reproducibility and GitHub Quality
• Could another team rebuild our robot from our documentation?
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 50 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
• Does our README explain how the system works and how to build it?
• Do we have at least three meaningful commits with clear messages?
• Are CAD, wiring, and code files all inside the repository?
C.6 Glossary for Younger Teams
This glossary is intended to help teams aged 14 to 16 but is useful for all.
• Constraint: A limit you must work within, such as maximum weight, limited battery
capacity, budget, or time.
• Trade off: A choice between two things where improving one makes the other worse
(for example more speed but less precision).
• Torque: Turning force from a motor. Higher torque helps move heavier loads or climb
inclines.
• Power budget: An estimation of how much current and power each part of the robot
uses, and whether the battery and regulators can handle it.
• State machine: A way to describe robot behavior as a set of “states” (for example
searching, following lane, avoiding obstacle) with rules that say when to switch from one
state to another.
• Calibration: The process of adjusting sensor readings or control parameters so that the
robot measures correctly and behaves as expected.
• Noise: Unwanted variation in sensor readings or signals that can cause unstable
behavior.
• Iteration: Repeating the cycle “plan, build, test, improve” to get a better design.
Versions 1, 2 and 3 are iterations.
• Failure mode: A way in which the robot can fail or perform badly, for example wheels
losing grip or sensors being blinded by light.
• Reproducibility: The ability for someone else to follow your documentation and build
the same robot with similar performance.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 51 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
C.7 Example 6 / 4 / 2 / 0 Excerpts for Each Criterion
These examples are short and simplified, but show the difference between the four levels.
C.7.1 Mobility and Mechanical Design
• Level 6 example
“We tested two gear ratios: 1:30 and 1:50. At 1:30, the robot reached higher speed but
could not stop accurately before the stop line. At 1:50, it accelerated slower but
maintained better control on tight turns. We selected 1:50 because it increased lap
consistency from 60 percent to 85 percent over 20 runs.”
• Level 4 example
“Our robot uses a differential drive with two 12 V DC motors and omni wheels. The
chassis layout and motor mounting are shown in Figure 3. The steering is achieved by
varying left and right motor speeds. The wheelbase and track width are shown in the
dimensioned drawing in Appendix A.”
• Level 2 example
“Our robot has a strong chassis with four wheels and two motors. It drives well and is
stable on the track.”
• Level 0 example
“Here is a picture of our robot.” (No further explanation.)
C.7.2 Power and Sensor Architecture
• Level 6 example
“The total current draw during peak acceleration is approximately 3.2 A for the drive
motors and 0.8 A for electronics. We therefore selected a 5 A step down regulator. We
tested two camera positions. The first position caused glare from overhead lights, so we
moved the camera 3 cm higher and tilted it by 10 degrees downward, which reduced
misdetection by 40 percent.”
• Level 4 example
“Figure 5 shows our wiring diagram. The main 3 cell LiPo battery feeds a 12 V line for
the motors and a 5 V regulator for the Raspberry Pi and sensors. We use two ToF
sensors in the front corners to detect pillars and explain their placement to cover both
sides of the robot.”
• Level 2 example
“We use a LiPo battery and several sensors: two ultrasonic sensors, a camera and an
IMU. We connect them to a power distribution board.”
• Level 0 example
No mention of how parts are powered or where sensors are placed.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 52 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
C.7.3 Software Architecture and Obstacle Strategy
• Level 6 example
“Our lane following uses a proportional controller based on the lateral offset of the
detected lane center. We tried bang-bang control, but it produced oscillations near
corners. The finite state machine in Figure 8 shows states for LaneFollow,
AvoidPillarLeft and AvoidPillarRight. We log the number of interventions per lap and
tuned the controller to minimize these interventions.”
• Level 4 example
“Figure 7 shows the flowchart of our main program. We first detect the lane, compute
the steering angle, check for pillars and adjust the path accordingly. Each of these
blocks is implemented in a separate Python module, which we explain in the text.”
• Level 2 example
“We wrote code that reads the camera and sensors and then controls the motors. The
robot turns away from obstacles when it sees them.”
• Level 0 example
Only code listings with no explanation of what the code does or how the robot behaves.
C.7.4 Systems Thinking and Engineering Decisions
• Level 6 example
“We considered two architectures: on board vision only and a split system with edge
processing off the robot. Due to latency and dependency on wireless communication we
selected fully on-board processing, even though it increased CPU load. We reduced
frame rate from 30 fps to 15 fps to keep CPU below 70 percent. Our risk table identified
overheating as a failure mode, so we added a fan and verified temperatures stayed
below 60 degrees Celsius during a 15-minute run.”
• Level 4 example
“Our overall system is shown in the block diagram in Figure 2. The drive, sensing,
processing and power subsystems are connected as shown. We briefly explain how
they interact to complete one lap.”
• Level 2 example
“We made several decisions during the season, for example changing motors and
moving sensors. We describe these changes, but without detailed reasoning.”
• Level 0 example
Documentation only describes the final design with no mention of choices, tradeoffs or
problems.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 53 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
C.7.5 Reproducibility and GitHub Quality
• Level 6 example
“Our GitHub repository contains all code, CAD, STL files and wiring diagrams. The
README explains how to assemble the robot step by step. Each major change is
recorded with a commit message such as ‘Added PID tuning’ and ‘Improved pillar
detection’. Release v1.0 corresponds to the regional event, and v2.0 to the final
international version. Our testing workflow is documented in tests.md.”
• Level 4 example
“The repository includes the full code base, 3D models and wiring diagram. The
README describes how to install the software and run the main program. We have at
least three commits showing progress.”
• Level 2 example
“We uploaded our final code to GitHub. The README briefly describes our robot.”
• Level 0 example
Missing repository, empty repository or repository that cannot be opened by the judges.
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 54 / 55
WRO Future Engineers Category – Game Rules 2026
Appendix D: Minimal set of electromechanical components
The list below represents the list of equipment which can be used for electromechanical parts
of the vehicle. This is suggestion rather than the requirements. Teams are on their own to
follow these suggestions or not.
• a single board computer: it will be used for real time video processing, analysing sensor
data, sending/managing signals to the motor controller.
• a single board microcontroller + a motor shield: this combination of equipment receives
managing signals from the main SBC and operates with motors correspondingly.
• a wide-angle camera
• two distance sensors
• two light sensors
• servomotor: it controls steering
• DC-motor with gearbox: it controls the vehicle’s velocity
• at least one encoder: it allows the vehicle to measure angular velocity of a DC motor
• IMU (inertial measurement unit) – this is usually a combination of gyroscope and
accelerometer: it can be used to improve the vehicle navigation
• two batteries: one is for SBC and SBM, another is for motors
• a voltage stabilizer: it is required to provide adequate power supply for the SBC/SBM
• two switches to connect batteries to the power consumers: SBC/SBM, motors
• push button: it could be used as a trigger to start the round
An example vehicle configuration could be:
• Chassis from a Remote Controlled (RC) Car
• The main controller -- Raspberry Pi 3 (https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-
3-model-b-plus/), and a MicroSD card to keep an operating system and programs.
• Camera module (https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/camera-module-v2/) with extra
wide-angle lens
• The motor and sensor controller -- Arduino UNO (https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-uno-
rev3) with a prototyping shield (https://store.arduino.cc/proto-shield-rev3-uno-size)
• DC Motor Controller (https://www.robotshop.com/en/cytron-13a-5-30v-single-dc-motor-
controller.html)
• DC Motor to drive the vehicle (could be part of the chassis),
• Servo Motor for steering (could be part of the chassis)
• IMU sensor (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/13762)
• 2 Ultrasonic Distance Sensor (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/15569)
• 2 Analog Line sensors (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9453)
• Rotary Encoder (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10790)
• An external USB Battery with a hub to split the consumption between Raspberry Pi and
Arduino
• Additional battery applicable to power the DC motor (could be part of the chassis)
World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of the World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. ©2026
Page 55 / 55